---
layout: post
title:  "Starting the journey"
date:   Thu, 01 Aug 2019 21:57:33 +1200
categories: motivation
---

My journey to find motivation started a long time ago. When I was a child and
later, as a university student, I had motivation to do some things, like playing
computer games. But later on, I lost most of my motivation. Even things that
gave me joy, like watching anime, I'd have no motivation to start doing. I had
read books and went through psychotherapy, but nothing would stick. I'd feel 
excited right after reading yet another book, but a few days after it would all
return back to normal, and I would struggle with motivation again.

It has really changed, when I read [The Heart to Start: Stop Procrastinating & Start
Creating](https://www.amazon.com/Heart-Start-Inner-Your-Shine-ebook/dp/B077XRMBR9/ref=tmm_kin_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&qid=1563193881&sr=8-1).
This book has stuck, and I've been re-reading highlights since I had first read
it.

## What's wrong with my motivation?

The truth is not that I don't have motivation, but that the motivation I've been
using is bad. I would use the following as motivation:

* If I don't do it, something bad will happen.
* Perfectionism (to polish what I created, while I may not be interested in the
  project).
* It's useful for my career (even though I chose technologies based on how much
  I like them, it was still bad).
* I started it, so I have to continue.

All the above reasons don't make for good motivation, and I would feel bad about
them, but I had no other motivation (except for very short random bursts).

## New kind of motivation that I'm using

When I started doing a [brew timer](/brew-cooldown), I was curious about using
images as a part of UI, and I wanted a timer that allowed me to wait for my tea
to cool down.

Today, when I thought about continuing with the project, I thought of things I
can polish (perfectionism), how I could use it to find a job (useful for my
career), and a bit of finishing it since I started it. But that motivation is
bad, and I realise it now.

So, I tried to find better motivation. And I found it:

* I'd like an ability to just wait for cool down, without brewing first. Because
  I brew some herbal teas in a thermos, when I pour from the thermos, it's
  already brewed and I just need to wait for it to cool down.
* I'd like to play with the idea of using HTML [range
  element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/range)
  (a slider) to enter brew time.

And so, I was able to change my motivation this time.
