---
layout: post
title:  "Weeknote W6 2021 - packaging for Linux and a stew recipe"
date:   Sun, 14 Feb 2021 16:29:24 +1300
categories: [weeknote,linux,cooking]
---

## Packaging software for major Linux distros

I've been packaging [KasmVNC](https://github.com/kasmtech/KasmVNC) for major (Debian-based and Fedora-based) Linux distros for ~90 hours.

I always thought packaging software for Linux would be a problem, because of the
need to support multiple package formats (e.g. deb, rpm), multiple Linux
distributions (e.g. Debian, CentOS), multiple releases within a distro (e.g.
Ununtu 18, Ubuntu 20).

In reality, I was able to reuse code I wrote for deb, in rpm development. I went from zero knowledge of rpm to a working draft rpm package in ~20 hours (what's left is polish and `rpmlint` errors).

### What I could reuse and what couldn't

Overall, a package contains package description (e.g. "Vi IMproved
enhanced vi editor"), build dependencies (e.g. gcc), runtime dependencies (e.g. libc6), files to store (e.g. `/usr/bin/vim`) and scripts (e.g. post-install, post-remove scripts). For example, a group (like `docker` group) could be created by a post-install script.

Package description is easily reused between deb and rpm.

I knew what software KasmVNC depended on from making deb package, but I had to
research in which packages it was on CentOS. For example, `lsb_release(1)` is
in the package `lsb-release` in Debian and in `redhat-lsb-core` in CentOS.

Both deb and rpm build systems auto-detect library dependencies (e.g.
`libjpeg62-turbo`), that was a huge help.

File locations on Linux are covered by [Filesystem Hierarchy
Standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_Hierarchy_Standard). For
example, config files go to `/etc`. I wrote code for deb that moves files from
`/usr/local` (where KasmVNC build process places them) to proper locations, and
was able to reuse the code in rpm package.

I could reuse parts of package scripts (e.g. post-install script) from deb in
rpm. Both deb and rpm use shellscript, so there's no problem reusing it.

KasmVNC needs a site certificate because it works over https. Debian has a
system-wide self-signed certificate I could use, but CentOS doesn't. I generate
the certificate in a post-install script.

Supporting multiple Debian-based distros and releases was pretty easy. There
were minor differences with dependencies, but I don't remember any other
issues.

### Differences in build environment

While deb uses standard make and shellscript files, rpm bundles everything into
one large custom format "spec" file. Package description, dependencies,
post-install and post-removal scripts go into a single "spec" file. I chose to
just copy parts of the post-install script to rpm, but it's not ideal.

## New wholesome stew recipe

I usually eat a salad with pasta, or meat with pasta, and that's underwhelming.
I wanted a dish that was wholesome and tasty. If you hate rice (like I did),
this dish will show you that rice doesn't have to be disgusting.

This new recipe uses cabbage, rice, meat (I use chicken), tomatoes, bell pepper
(not in the recipe, but I love adding  it), red onion. Fairly easy to cook and
wholesome. Hope you enjoy this
[recipe](https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=auto&tl=en&u=https%3A%2F%2Fladyelena.ru%2Fkapusta-s-risom-5-receptov-dlya-bystrogo-i-vkusnogo-uzhina%2F%23i-2).
